==Requirements==

* <b>texvc</b>, the script MediaWiki calls to render the "math" fragments, is included in the "math" sub-directory of the installation
* <b>OCaml 3.06</b> (Objective Caml) or later is required to compile texvc; this can be acquired from http://caml.inria.fr/ if your system doesn't have it available.
* The makefile requires <b>GNU make</b>.
* Rasterization is done via <b>LaTeX</b>, <b>dvips</b>, <b>ImageMagick</b>, and <b>Ghostscript</b>. These need to be installed (probably available in your Linux distribution) and in the PATH: the commands {{{
latex
}}}, {{{
dvips
}}}, {{{
convert
}}}, {{{
gs
}}} should all work on the command line.
* To work properly with rendering non-ASCII Unicode characters, a <b>supplemental TeX package</b> is needed ("cjk-latex" in Debian)


==Getting==
; texvc : Should be in your MediaWiki distribution (in the sub-directory math/).
; OCaml (<b>I haven't installed it yet</b>) : [http://caml.inria.fr/ocaml/release.en.html Latest Objective Caml release] (must be installed in the sub-directory math/ of your wiki)
; GNU make : On Linux, you should have it.
:Under Windows, you can use [http://www.mingw.org/ MinGW] or [http://www.cygwin.com/ Cygwin].
:All others: see [http://www.gnu.org/software/make/make.html GNU Make - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation (FSF)]
; LaTeX and dvips : see [http://www.tug.org/texlive/ TeX Live - TeX Users Group] (It's large and a pain to get.)
:Many Linux systems have LaTeX already installed.
; ImageMagick : [http://www.imagemagick.org/script/binary-releases.php ImageMagick: Install from Binary Distribution] (a [http://www.entropy.ch/software/macosx/welcome.html#imagemagick: binary distribution for MacOSX] is provided by [http://www.entropy.ch: Entropy])
; Ghostscript : On Linux, you may have it. It is easiest to install from packages for your distribution.
:[http://sourceforge.net/projects/ghostscript/ Source files] are available from SourceForge.net

==Installation==

# Change to the "math" sub-directory of your MediaWiki install
# Run 'make' (or 'gmake' if GNU make is not your default make). This should produce the texvc executable.
# Enable $wgUseTeX in your LocalSettings.php and everything should work.

==Notes==

*Remember that Tex code is rendered during saving, but only changed data is rerendered and saved:)
*More information is included in the "README" file in the "math" directory.
*For Debian there is a neat [[Help:Running_MediaWiki_on_Debian_GNU/Linux#TeX_Support|Debian-howto]] going through the whole procedure step by step, also pointing out some possible traps and problems.

==See also==
*[[Problems with texvc]]
*[[LaTex on a shared host]]

[[Category:MediaWiki Configuration]]
