= What I used =
* a PC with a Intel CPU, one Hard Disk.
* iATKOS v1.0i DVD (we can download it from minivoa and burn it)
* Windows XP install CD
* PQ Magic (already in the Windows install CD)

= Installation =
* Make 2 partitions on the Hard Disk, say disk0s1 and disk0s2. Active the first one.
* Install Windows XP on disk0s1.
* Boot with PQ magic CD, active disk0s2.
* Boot with iATKOS DVD
* After seen the Mac OS Welcome screen, do not click Agree, click Utilities > Disk Utilities on the Apple bar at the top of screen.
* Select the partition disk0s2, change the format of this partition and erase it. Quit Disk Utilities.
* Go back to the Apple menu bar and select Utilities > Darwin_Boot
* Type Y (yes) to contitue, type 1 for Hard Disk number, type 2 for the partition number, so that's disk0s2.
* Type Y to install boot efi if the CPU is Intel Dual Core. Quit Darwin_boot if no error message.
* Read the Terms & Conditions for iATKOS v1.0i and click Agree.
* Select packages you want to install, I only select 
 MBIOS.KEXT.NETKES
 REMOTE.APPLE.NEL.CPU.POWER.Management.KEXT 
 and driver for the graphic card. I didn't select a driver for network card.
* Now the installation of Leopard begins, it needs 20-30 min. After all of these, you can use Leopard, but you can not get into Windows XP.

= Dual Boot of Leopard and XP =
* Boot with PQ Magic, active the disk0s1 which has Windows XP installed
* Reboot, and log in the Windows XP
* Copy CHAIN0 from iATKOS DVD to the root of disk0s1
* Edit boot.ini, put one line at the end of the file:
 C:\chain0="Mac OS X Leopard"
* Reboot, now you have a menu with two options, one is Windows, one is the Leopard, after selected Leopard, you have to click F8 to enter the system.

= Done! =

= Caution =
* Don't change Hard Disk Partition Map with Disk Utilities (from iATKOS DVD), Disk Utilities can only be use to change the partition format and erase partition.
* If one operation system can not be booted (like the blink cursor error), normally you need to active the partition of system.

= Other things =
* If you don't have PQ magic, it's also ok, you can type some commands mentioned in other manual.

= Reference =
* http://inihilist.wordpress.com/2008/01/07/easy-installation-guide-dual-boot-windows-vista-and-mac-os-x-105-real-quick-and-fool-proof/
* http://wiki.osx86project.org
* http://forum.insanelymac.com
* [http://www.vistafans.com/ 远景论坛]
* [http://forum.insanelymac.com/index.php?showtopic=73952 GUID partition scheme support EFI, With dual booting]