= Profile =
User  private  default  request  files  are  processed  under  the  locations $HOME/.sge_request  and  $cwd/.sge_request.  The  working  directory  local default request file has the highest precedence

= E-mail =
send email when the job ends:
{{
-m e
-M your@email
}}}

= sge script =
job.sge
{{{class="brush: bash"
# IMPORTANT: specifies the interpreting shell for this job to be the Bash shell
#$ -S /bin/sh

# execute the job for the current working directory.
#$ -cwd

# set the required cpu time of your job
# HH:MM:SS
#$ -l h_cpu=20:00:00

# set the required memory:
# normal:3.7 GB, 72 h, 4 slots per host.
# bigmem: 7.7 GB, 72 h, 2 slots per host.
# hugemem: 15.7 GB, 72 h, 1 slot per host.
#$ -l h_vmem=7000M

# don't flood myself with e-mail
#$ -m n

# join the error and standard output streams
#$ -j yes

# Defines or redefines the path used for the standard error  stream 
# and the standard output stream of the job. 
#$ -o ./sge.out/
#$ -e ./sge.out/

# name of the job
#$ -N mapping_simulation

# all environment variables active within the qsub utility be exported to  the  context
              of the job.
#$ -V

# If the value of -b is 'y', then command  may be a binary or script. If  the  value  of -b is 'n' then command needs to be a script and it will be handled as script.
#$ -b y

echo $1 | ./job.Rf
}}}

= submit script =
{{{class="brush: bash"
for i in `seq 1 100`; do qsub job.sge $i; done
}}}

= Other tips =
== SGE command ==
* submit jobs
{{
qsub
}}}

* check the state of jobs
{{
qstat
}}}

* check the state of a particular job
{{
qstat -j JOB_ID
}}}

* check the state of severs
{{
qstat -g c
}}}

* delete jobs
{{
qdel -u augix
}}}
